# OSDT Weekly 2021-03-10 ç¬¬088æœŸ

ç‚¹å‡»ã€ŒæŸ¥çœ‹åŸæ–‡ã€è·³è½¬åˆ° GitHub ä¸Šå¯¹åº”æ–‡ä»¶ï¼Œé“¾æ¥å°±å¯ä»¥ç‚¹å‡»äº†ã€‚

### è¿‘æœŸæ´»åŠ¨

**OSDT Meetup**

æœ¬å‘¨æ—¥2æœˆ21æ—¥ä¸Šåˆ10ç‚¹åˆ°12ç‚¹ã€‚æœ¬æœŸæ´»åŠ¨ MaskRay ä¼šä»‹ç»ä¸€ä¸‹æœ€è¿‘çš„å·¥ä½œï¼ˆå¤§æ¦‚ç‡ TLS ç›¸å…³ï¼‰ï¼Œä»¥åŠ RadarSong æœ‰å¯èƒ½ä¼šåˆ†äº«ä¸‹ TVM ç›¸å…³çš„ä¸Šæ‰‹å·¥ä½œï¼Œä¸»è¦æ˜¯è°ƒè¯•é…ç½®éƒ¨åˆ†ã€‚æ¬¢è¿OSDTç¤¾åŒºå°ä¼™ä¼´ç»§ç»­æŠ¥ååˆ†äº«ï¼Œè¿˜æœ‰ä¸€ä¸¤ä¸ªåˆ†äº«çš„æ—¶é—´çª—å£ã€‚

**RISC-V Summit China**

ç›®å‰è¿›å…¥äº†å‰æœŸæ‹‰èµåŠ©çš„çŠ¶æ€ã€‚ä¼°è®¡2æœˆ22æ—¥å¼€å§‹ä¼šè¿›è¡Œæ¼”è®²å’Œæµ·æŠ¥çš„å¾é›†ï¼ˆCFPï¼‰ã€‚

## ç¼–è¯‘ç¤¾åŒºçš„å…«å¦ä¿¡æ¯

### GCC

Stage4å†²åˆºæœ€åé˜¶æ®µï¼Œä»£ç åŸºæœ¬å†»ç»“ï¼Œpatchå¾ˆå°‘
- GSoC 2021 - Static analyzer project
  https://gcc.gnu.org/pipermail/gcc/2021-March/date.html

- HELP: MIPS PC Relative Addressing
  https://gcc.gnu.org/pipermail/gcc/2021-March/234929.html

- [PATCH v2] aarch64: Fix SVE ACLE builtins with LTO [PR99216]
  https://gcc.gnu.org/pipermail/gcc-patches/2021-March/date.html

- [PATCH V4 0/5] Support for the CTF and BTF debug formats
  https://gcc.gnu.org/pipermail/gcc-patches/2021-March/566459.html

- [PATCH 0/3] Uncontroversial improvements to C++20 wait-related implementation
  https://gcc.gnu.org/pipermail/gcc-patches/2021-March/566345.html

### Binutils/GDB

- [PATCHv3 0/9] Bare-metal core dumps for RISC-V
  https://sourceware.org/pipermail/binutils/2021-March/115646.html

- [PATCH 00/16] libctf: mostly cleanups and refactoring
  https://sourceware.org/pipermail/binutils/2021-March/115651.html

- [PATCH] RISC-V : Support bitmanip-0.93 ZBA/ZBB/ZBC instructions
  https://sourceware.org/pipermail/binutils/2021-March/115683.html

- [PATCH 0/9] x86: disassembler fixes and table shrinking
  https://sourceware.org/pipermail/binutils/2021-March/115695.html

- GDB 10.2 Release: Proposing Mar 13-14 for official GDB 10.2 release
  https://sourceware.org/pipermail/gdb-patches/2021-March/176839.html

- å¹²è´§: [RFC] TUI windows for locals/display/threads/frames/memory
  https://sourceware.org/pipermail/gdb-patches/2021-March/176816.html

### GLIBC

- [RFC PATCH v2 00/13] Add futex2 syscall
  https://sourceware.org/pipermail/libc-alpha/2021-March/123184.html

- [PATCH 00/16] memory tagging improvements
  https://sourceware.org/pipermail/libc-alpha/2021-March/123225.html

- [RFC PATCH v2 00/13] Add futex2 syscall
  https://sourceware.org/pipermail/libc-alpha/2021-March/123491.html

- [RFC][PATCH v9 0/7] Implementation of RTLD_SHARED for dlmopen
  https://sourceware.org/pipermail/libc-alpha/2021-March/123545.html

- [PATCH v2 0/3] Clean up stack-protector-all build
  https://sourceware.org/pipermail/libc-alpha/2021-March/123599.html

- [PATCH 00/52] Add 64 bit time support on legacy ABIs
  https://sourceware.org/pipermail/libc-alpha/2021-March/123328.html

### LLVM/Clang/LLDB/LLD

æœ¬èŠ‚å†…å®¹æ¥è‡ª [LLVM Weekly ç¬¬375æœŸ](http://llvmweekly.org/issue/375)ï¼Œ
[Alex Bradbury](https://www.linkedin.com/in/alex-bradbury/) å¤§å“¥æŒç»­ç¨³å®šè¾“å‡ºã€‚

ä¸Šå‘¨å¹²è´§å¾ˆå¤šã€‚Alexå¤§å“¥è¾›è‹¦äº†ã€‚

* MichaÅ‚ GÃ³rny [blogged about work on LLDB FreeBSD support](https://www.moritz.systems/blog/freebsd-legacy-process-plugin-removed/), detailing work already done, and work planned for the future.
  ç¤¾ç¾¤éœ€è¦ä¸åŒçš„å£°éŸ³ï¼Œç³»ç»Ÿéœ€è¦è·¨å¹³å°çš„æ”¯æŒ ğŸ˜„ å§‹ç»ˆç¥ç¦å’Œæ”¯æŒ FreeBSDã€OpenBSDã€NetBSDã€‚

* Scott Wolchok blogged about [parameter passing in C and C++](https://wolchok.org/posts/parameter-passing/).
  æˆ‘æ²¡çœ‹æ‡‚è¦å¹²å•¥ã€‚å¯¹è¿™å—ä¸äº†è§£ã€‚

* Konrad Trifunovic posted an RFC on [upstreaming a proper SPIR-V backend to LLVM](https://lists.llvm.org/pipermail/llvm-dev/2021-March/148985.html), i.e. an LLVM backend that targets the SPIR-V portable IR format. The initial target would be SPIR-V for compute, with potential future extensions for 3d shaders. The RFC provides a brief summary of the previous discussions and areas where consensus wasn't reched (specifically, the design choice of creating a translator library wrapped within a target, a 'proper' target using SelectionDAG/GlobalISel, or a binary emission layer). This resulted in a lengthy thread that I couldn't hope to fully summarise. One notable line of discussion was around [whether the goals could be achieved using MLIR](https://lists.llvm.org/pipermail/llvm-dev/2021-March/148926.html).
  è·Ÿ RISC-V æ²¡å…³ç³»çš„æ ·å­ã€‚

* Tanya Lattner shared that [the deadline for mentors to submit Outreachy project proposals has been extended to March 11th](https://lists.llvm.org/pipermail/llvm-dev/2021-March/149038.html).  Unfortunately, at the time of writing that email, nobody had yet submitted a project idea or volunteered to be a mentor.
  å¤§é™†å‚ä¸å¥½åƒæµç¨‹ä¸Šæ¯”è¾ƒéº»çƒ¦ï¼Ÿ

* Kito Cheng proposed an RFC on [proposed behaviour of `__fp16` for RISC-V](https://lists.llvm.org/pipermail/cfe-dev/2021-March/067847.html).  Sjoerd Meijer [outlined some concerns with this proposal](https://lists.llvm.org/pipermail/cfe-dev/2021-March/067867.html).
  æˆ‘è®°å¾—å¥½ä¹…ä¹‹å‰å°±çœ‹åˆ°è®¨è®ºäº†ï¼Œè¿™ä¸ª fp16 â€¦â€¦

* Louis Dionne initiated a discussion on [which compilers and compiler versions libc++ should claim to support](https://lists.llvm.org/pipermail/libcxx-dev/2021-March/001082.html).
  æœ‰éœ€æ±‚çš„å°ä¼™ä¼´èµ¶ç´§å»å›é‚®ä»¶ã€‚

* Tom Stellard [updated on the status of the 12.0.0 release](https://lists.llvm.org/pipermail/llvm-dev/2021-March/148936.html), indicating it will be delayed by 1-2 weeks.

* Kristof Beyls [re-advertised the agenda and notes doc for the LLVM security group](https://lists.llvm.org/pipermail/llvm-dev/2021-March/148985.html), who will be meeting next on 16th March.

* Louis Dionne proposed [improvements to the libc++ approval policy](https://lists.llvm.org/pipermail/libcxx-dev/2021-March/001091.html), which would increase the number of people approving patches.

* LLVM GPU News Issue #7 [is out](https://lists.llvm.org/pipermail/llvm-dev/2021-March/149017.html).
  åè¯­è¯‘å›æœ‰äººå…³æ³¨ä¹ˆï¼Ÿ

* David Zarzycki proposed [creating llvm/Support/InternalLimts.h](https://lists.llvm.org/pipermail/llvm-dev/2021-March/149010.html) to contain essential constants such as the alignment limit.

* Tanya Lattner warns that [subscription to LLVM's mailman lists has had to be disabled temporarily](https://lists.llvm.org/pipermail/llvm-dev/2021-March/149027.html) due to someone abusing the sign-up form to generate subscription confirmation emails maliciously.

* Min-Yih Hsu [notes that the new experimental M68k backend is abou to land](https://lists.llvm.org/pipermail/llvm-dev/2021-March/149040.html).

* ORC JIT Weekly #31 [is out](https://lists.llvm.org/pipermail/llvm-dev/2021-March/148900.html) (in fact, it was out last week and narrowly missed that LLVM Weekly issue). It provides an update on debugger support for JITLink and the JITLink design document.

* David Rector created a thread to discuss [a benchmark indicating Clang evaluates constexpr substantially more slowly than GCC](https://lists.llvm.org/pipermail/cfe-dev/2021-March/067809.html).  Richard Smith [noted](https://lists.llvm.org/pipermail/cfe-dev/2021-March/067810.html) this was due to GCC memoizing constant evaluations. In a trial where that optimisation isn't possible, Clang out-performs GCC.

### RISC-V in China

- [èŠ¯æ¥Tech Day@æ·±åœ³ï¼šâ€œè“¬å‹ƒå‘å±•çš„RISC-Vç”Ÿæ€â€](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/9TrxAsoKN3JL9dJ27xRWtg)

- å…³äº [Wave Computing æ”¹åå« MIPS å¹¶æŠ•èº« RISC-V å¼€å‘](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/lAy7jxLTzxfKZE9dlR2hHg) è¿™ä»¶äº‹ï¼Œè¢«å›½å†…è‡ªåª’ä½“ç©åäº† XD

### RT-Thread ç¤¾åŒº

- [ã€AIç®€æŠ¥ã€‘åŸºäºTensorRTå®ŒæˆNanoDetæ¨¡å‹éƒ¨ç½²ã€Google AIå‘å¸ƒTensorFlow 3D](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/O_Bt4t7hFajU7dYy69x3Wg)

- RT-Thread èµåŠ©2021å¹´æ™ºèƒ½è½¦ç«èµ›ï¼Œç›®å‰æ­£åœ¨è¿›è¡Œä¸€ç³»åˆ—åŸ¹è®­ï¼Œå¯åœ¨eepwç½‘ç«™çœ‹åˆ°ç›´æ’­æˆ–è€…å›è®¿

- rt-smartæ­£åœ¨åŸºäºqemuåšRISC-V 64ä½çš„æ”¯æŒï¼Œæœ‰å…´è¶£çš„å¯ä»¥å…³æ³¨rt-smartä»“åº“

### TVM / MLIR / AI Compilers

- TVM æ­£å¸¸æ´»è·ƒçš„å¼€å‘ã€‚
- çªç„¶æƒ³èµ·å¥½ä¹…æ²¡æœ‰ MXNet çš„æ¶ˆæ¯äº†ï¼ˆ

### æœ¬å‘¨å·¥å…·é“¾å²—ä½

**å¾€æœŸç¤¾æ‹›åŠå®ä¹ ç”Ÿæ‹›è˜é•¿æœŸæœ‰æ•ˆã€‚**

- [æ”¾å‡å¤šæ— èŠï¼Œæ¥å®ä¹ å§ï¼](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/pWjPrHtaWnzWbPfqqcX1cQ)
- [é˜¿é‡Œæ·˜ç³»æŠ€æœ¯éƒ¨æ‹›è˜ç¼–è¯‘å™¨æŠ€æœ¯ä¸“å®¶ï¼ˆé«˜çº§æŠ€æœ¯ä¸“å®¶ï¼‰](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/Yr_XA_L9fCI8IvhuudwTkQ)
- [PLCTå®éªŒå®¤2021H1ç¤¾æ‹›å¼€å¯ï¼šæ¥ä¸€èµ·ä¸ºRISC-Vé‡æ–°å‘æ˜è½®å­å§ï¼](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/9BUJ1-LbHGm-Lhs_Lavzjw)
- [è£è€€æ‹›è˜ç¼–è¯‘å™¨ä¸ç¼–ç¨‹è¯­è¨€å¼€å‘å·¥ç¨‹å¸ˆ](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/XaLAhjLP6fhj3Vl-mUjXng)

### æœ¬å‘¨æ¨èé˜…è¯»

æœ¬å‘¨æ¨èï¼šã€Šå›¾è¯´éª‘å£«ä¸–ç•Œã€‹

ä½œè€…ï¼š æ± ä¸Šä¿Šä¸€

ç¿»è¯‘è€…ï¼š æ›¹é€¸å†°

æ¨èï¼šå°ç¼–1å·

éª‘å£«ä¸ç®¡æ˜¯ç°åœ¨çš„ä¸‰æ¬¡å…ƒçš„è¯­å¢ƒè¿˜æ˜¯äºŒæ¬¡å…ƒçš„è¯­å¢ƒéƒ½æ˜¯ä¸€ä¸ªé«˜é¢‘è¯æ±‡ã€‚äººäººéƒ½ä¼šå¶å°”ç”¨ä¸Šã€‚éƒ½èƒ½ç”¨çš„ä¸€å¤§åŸå› æ˜¯å®šä¹‰éå¸¸æ¨¡ç³Šã€‚ä¸€åƒä¸ªäººï¼Œåœ¨ä¸€ä¸‡ä¸ªå…³äºéª‘å£«çš„è§è§£ â€”â€” æ˜¯çœŸçš„ï¼Œå¦‚æœè€ƒè™‘åˆ°æ¯ä¸ªäººåœ¨æ¯å¹´å¯¹äºéª‘å£«çš„ä¸ªäººå°è±¡çš„å·®å¼‚çš„è¯ã€‚

è¿™æœ¬ä¹¦ä½œè€…å±•ç¤ºäº†éå¸¸çœŸå®çš„ï¼ˆå°½å¯èƒ½å§ï¼‰11ä¸–çºªåˆ°15ä¸–çºªçš„éª‘å£«ä¸–ç•Œã€‚éå¸¸çœŸå®ï¼ŒçœŸå®åˆ°å°±è·Ÿã€ŠåŠŸå¤«ã€‹é‡Œé¢çš„è´«æ°‘çªŸä¸€æ ·ã€‚ä¹Ÿéå¸¸æœ‰æ„æ€ï¼Œé˜…è¯»è¿™æœ¬ä¹¦çš„æ—¶å€™ï¼Œé‡Œé¢æœ‰éå¸¸å¤šçš„å¤ç”»ï¼Œé…åˆä½œè€…ç»†å¿ƒçš„å†å²æ•°æ®è¿˜åŸï¼Œçœ‹åˆ°äº†éª‘å£«åœ¨è´¢åŠ¡ã€è®­ç»ƒã€å®¶å¢ƒã€èŒä¸šå‘å±•ä¸Šçš„å„ç§çœŸå®ã€‚

ä¹¦è¿˜æ˜¯æ¯”è¾ƒæ­£ç»çš„ã€‚ä¸è¿‡çœ‹çš„æ—¶å€™æ€»æ˜¯å¾ˆæƒ³ç¬‘ã€‚
